README.md, before:

# C Data Structures

This is (WIP) a collection of generic, macro-based container data structures for the C language, with a custom allocator support and test coverage.

Currently, only an arraylist (c++ vector) is implemented, can be used with any C (custom user or not) type, including value types and pointers.

The container itself is memory-safe (at least that I know of) with clear destruction patterns and ownership semantics, but the user can write unsafe code to operate on it, like operating directly on the data buffer.

# Requirements

- C Compiler (compiled with C99)
- CMake (3.20+)

## Build & Run

### Step-by-step

1. Clone the repo
    - `$ git clone`
    - `$ cd cdatatypes`
    - `$ cd build`
2. Configure the build
    - `$ cmake -B build ..`
    - For release build do `$ cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..`
    - For sanitizer build do `$ cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Sanitizer ..`
3. Build
    - `$ cmake --build .`
4. Run
    - `$ ./bin/*(.exe)`

# Extra note for Windows

The build system will search for `clang-cl`. CMake can be changed to use MSVC.

# Usage

## Using the Arraylist

### To define an arraylist for a type:

```c
#include "arraylist.h"

struct mytype { int x; float y; };
ARRAYLIST(struct mytype, mytype)
```
### Initialize:

```c
struct arraylist_mytype arr = arraylist_mytype_init(NULL, mytype_dtor);
// use arr
arraylist_mytyoe_deinit(&arr);
```

Destructor functions are critical for correct memory handling of heap allocated fields inside structs, if your type doesn't allocate anything inside it, no need for a destructor.

All arraylist functions are safe to call on NULL or deinitialized arraylist, unless assert is decided to be used.

Unit tests on arraylist/src/test.c

Examples on arraylist/src/example.c

# Custom Allocators

Allocator is a pluggable interface via the Allocator struct, by default malloc/realloc/free are used.
To use a custom allocator, you have to implement the three function pointers as described in allocator.h, then create and pass an Allocator instance to init function

Commit message:

Add about performance on README

README.md, after:

# C Data Structures

This is (WIP) a collection of generic, macro-based container data structures for the C language, with a custom allocator support and test coverage.

Currently, only an arraylist (c++ vector) is implemented, can be used with any C (custom user or not) type, including value types and pointers.

The container itself is memory-safe (at least that I know of) with clear destruction patterns and ownership semantics, but the user can write unsafe code to operate on it, like operating directly on the data buffer.

# Requirements

- C Compiler (compiled with C99)
- CMake (3.20+)

## Build & Run

### Step-by-step

1. Clone the repo
    - `$ git clone`
    - `$ cd cdatatypes`
    - `$ cd build`
2. Configure the build
    - `$ cmake -B build ..`
    - For release build do `$ cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release ..`
    - For sanitizer build do `$ cmake -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Sanitizer ..`
3. Build
    - `$ cmake --build .`
4. Run
    - `$ ./bin/*(.exe)`

#### Extra note for Windows

The build system will search for `clang-cl`, then fallback to MSVC. To force MSVC use the option -DUSE_CLANG_CL=OFF.

# Usage

## Using the Arraylist

### To define an arraylist for a type:

```c
#include "arraylist.h"

struct mytype { int x; float y; };
ARRAYLIST(struct mytype, mytype, mytype_macro_dtor)
```
### Initialize:

```c
struct arraylist_mytype arr = arraylist_mytype_init(NULL);
// use arr
arraylist_mytype_deinit(&arr);
```

Destructor functions are critical for correct memory handling of heap allocated fields inside structs, if your type doesn't allocate anything inside it, or it isn't a pointer type, no need for a destructor.

You are also free to not use a destructor at all and manage all the memory.

All arraylist functions are safe to call on NULL or deinitialized arraylist, unless assert is decided to be used.

Unit tests on [arraylist/src/test.c](arraylist/src/test.c).

Examples are on arraylist/src/example_*.c.

### Performance:

The `arraylist` implementation provides performance nearly identical (sometimes beating) to C++ STL `std::vector<unique_ptr<T>>`.
Overheads for the "function pointer" destructor version are very small (less than 1% for heavy pointer use).

For more details and benchmarking code, see [arraylist/src/PERFORMANCE.md](arraylist/src/PERFORMANCE.md).

# Custom Allocators

Allocator is a pluggable interface via the Allocator struct, by default malloc/realloc/free are used.
To use a custom allocator, you have to implement the three function pointers as described in allocator.h, then create and pass an Allocator instance to init function
